# Olympic Success and Voter Turnout Rates
### Topic
This is an analysis looking at various measures of United States Olympic success (defined below) as they relates to United States voting turnout rates.
### Motivation
I am interested in social effects of the Olympics beyond instilling a sense of patriotism and pride from success in international competition. Specifically, I hypothesize that within the United States (a capitalist, individualistic nation), seeing fellow compatriots succeed on an international level will be correlated with an increase in voter turnout in the subsequent election (be it presidential or midterm).
### Background Information
[Here](https://www.olympic.org/) is a link to general information about the Olympic Games, [Here](https://www.kaggle.com/the-guardian/olympic-games) is a link to the data I used for the Olympic sucess measures, and [Here](http://sk.sagepub.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/cqpress/voter-turnout-in-the-united-states-1788-2009) is a link to the data I used to gather voting information.
### Summary
As might be expected, the relationship between each measure of Summer Olympic Success and Winter Olympic Success is practically uncorrelated with raw voter turnout rates. This could be for a variety of reasons--the time lag between when the Olympics take place and when elections take place, the lack of emphasis in American culture on many of the sports that are contested in the Olympics, etc. But what may be more surprising, though, is that there are stronger and opposing correlations between these measures for Winter Olympic Success and change in percentage of voting-age individuals who vote in a given year's election and the same relationship for Summer Olympic Success. Most winter measures have a positive correlation while most summer measures have negative correlations. I find this even more surprising, because the time effect discussed earlier should be larger for the Winter Olympics, our culture traditionally is more concerned with sports contested in the Summer Olympics than those of the Winter Olympics, and the U.S. traditionally does far better in the SUmmer Olympics than the Winter Olympics. Most of these correlation coeffecients, as we see in the "Models" tab of the shiny app linked to below, are not statistically significant. This could be due to the small sample size and is likely due to the exclusion of many other variables that have influence on turnout rates, but this relationship is still interesting nonetheless. It is also very important to keep in mind that these analyses are looking at correlative relationships, not causative ones.
### Olympic Success
"Olympic Success" can have very many definitions, so I am looking at it in a number of ways. The first measure is Total Medal Rank, which refers to the U.S.'s ranking in the total medal count for each Olympic Games. The second is Gold Medal Percentage, which refers to the percentage of total gold medals awarded at the Olympics won by the U.S. The third measure is Change in Gold Medal Percentage, which refers to the difference between a given year's Gold Medal Percentage and that of the Olympics four years prior. The fourth and fifth measures are Total Medal Percentage and Change in Total Medal Percentage, which are calculated similarly to the Gold Medal variables but use the sum of Gold, Silver, and Bronze medals instead of just Gold.

### Link to Shiny App Website
https://dillonmsmith17.shinyapps.io/olympic_results_vs_voter_turnout/

Created by Dillon M. Smith as a Harvard University GOV 1005 final project
